#summary An introduction to the textBe Build

= Introduction =

TextBe is built

  * From sources in SVN 
  * Using Tycho
  * On Jenkins
  * Deploying to Nexus OSS with P2 plugin

The project is split into 

  * The IDE frame application
  * User features to be installed into that frame

= Tycho requirements =

== Shared Namespace ==

Tycho uses the namespace that Maven uses. Eclipse has separate namespaces for 

  * features
  * plugins/bundles
  * products
  * targets
  * ..

To avoid namespace collisions, certain values for project names are currently reserved.

||*Tycho Type*||*Eclipse Type*||*Names*||
||eclipse-plugin||plugin||${projectName},${projectName}.unitTest,${projectName}.systemTest,${projectName}.branding,${projectName}.ui.help,${projectName}.api.help||
||feature||feature||${projectName}.sdk,${projectName}.rt,${projectName}.services,${projectName}.ui,${projectName}.sources,${projectName}.tests||
||repository||category||${projectName}.repository||
||repository||product||${projectName}.product||

== Version Numbering ==

In Maven -SNAPSHOT is a lesser version than the associated release version. In OSGI .qualifier is a greater version than the associated base version. This means that OSGI will select SNAPSHOT artifacts over RELEASE artifacts, which is not intended.

As a result the following rule is used

  * Even version numbers represent releases
  * Odd version numbers represent snapshots

= Features =

  * Features have a base name that is used to identify them within the repository. E.g. 'bt2gv'
  * Features are internally structured

||*extension*||*Long Name*||*provides*||*requires feature*||*includes feature*||
||services||Services||programmatic interface||none||none||
||ui||User Interface||interactive access||services||none||
||rt||Runtime||end-user features||none||ui,services||
||sources||Source Code||source code lookup||none||none||
||tests||Deployable tests||tests to run in test environment||test runners,target||rt||
||sdk||Source Developer Kit||everything except tests||none|| ^tests ||

= Process =

The current process builds a repository site per module, and the product aggregates these modules. Higher modules refer to P2 sites within SVN to obtain their requirements.

Tycho builds are using the tycho 0.16.0 local-dependencies:ignore setting, to avoid the build being polluted by local snapshots lying around.

== Intended process ==

=== Features ===

The intended process involves features being built in two stages:

  1. Check-out of all parts from SVN
  2. Build in tycho/Jenkins
  3. Deploy plugins to nexus OSS with P2
  4. Deploy features to SVN with SVN publisher in Jenkins

As part of this process, P2 dependencies can be drawn in from the local nexus.

=== Top-level Repos ===

There are two top-level repos:

  * /updates/(release number) contains releases of the TextBE IDE itself
  * /releases/(release name) contains releases of features to be installed into the IDE

These repositories are created by collecting the individual repos of the features.
